# 1.2.1.3 PCEP-30-02 Practice Test Compendium – Tuples and dictionaries

## Tuples

01\) A **tuple**, like a list, is a data aggregate that contains a certain number (including zero) of elements of any type. Tuples, like lists, are **sequences**, but they are **immutable**. You're not allowed to change any of the tuple elements, or add a new element, or remove an existing element. Attempting to break this rule will raise the `TypeError` exception.

02\) Tuples can be initialized with tuple literals. For example, these assignments instantiate three tuples – one empty, one one-element, and one two-element:

```python
empty_tuple = () # tuple() has the same meaning
tuple("a",) # Output: ('a',)
one_element_tuple = tuple((1,)) # (1) will produce an integer!
one_element_tuple = (1,)
one_element_tuple = 1, # the same effect as above
two_element_tuple = (1, 2.5)
two_element_tuple = 1, 2.5 # the same effect as above
```

03\) The **number of elements** contained in the tuple can be determined by the `len()` function. For example, the following snippet prints `4` to the screen:

```python
print(len((1, 2.2, '3', True))
```

Note the inner pair of parentheses – they **cannot be omitted**, as it will cause the tuple to be replaced with four independent values and will cause an error.

04\) Any of the tuple's elements can be accessed using indexing, which works in the same manner as in lists, including slicing.

05\) An attempt to access a non-existent tuple element raises the `IndexError` exception.

06\) If any of the slice's indices exceeds the permissible range, no exception is raised, and the non-existent elements are not taken into consideration. Therefore, the resulting slice may be an empty tuple. For example, the following snippet outputs `()` to the screen:

```python
print((1,2,3)[4:5])
```

07\) The `in` and `not in` operators can check whether or not any value is contained inside the tuple.

08\) Tuples can be iterated through (traversed) by the `for` loop, like lists.

09\) The `+` operator joins tuples together.

10\) The `*` operator multiplies tuples, just like lists.

## Dictionaries

01\) A **dictionary** is a data aggregate that gathers `pairs of values`. The first element in each pair is called the key, and the second one is called the `value`. Both keys and values can be of any type.

02\) Dictionaries are **mutable** but **are not sequences** – the order of pairs is imposed by the order in which the keys are entered into the dictionary.

03\) Dictionaries can be initialized with dictionary literals. For example, these assignments instantiate two dictionaries – one empty and one containing two `key:value` pairs:

```python
empty_dictionary = {}
phone_directory = {'Emergency': 911, 'Speaking Clock': 767}
```
