# 1.2.1.1 PCEP-30-02 Practice Test Compendium – Lists and strings

## Lists

01\) A **list** is a data aggregate that contains a certain number (including zero) of elements of any type.

02\) Lists are **sequences** – they can be iterated, and the order of the elements is established.

03\) Lists are **mutable** – their contents may be changed.

04\) Lists can be **initialized** with list literals. For example, these two assignments instantiate two lists – the former is empty, while the latter contains three elements:

```python
empty_list = []
three_elements = [1, 'two', False]
```

05\) The number of elements contained in the list can be determined by the `len()` function. For example, the following snippet prints `3` to the screen:

```
print(len(['a', 'b', 'c'])
```

06\) Any of the list's elements can be accessed using **indexing**. List elements are indexed by integer numbers starting from **zero**. Therefore, the first list element's index is **0** while the last element's index is equal to the **list length minus 1**. Using indices that are not integers raises the `TypeError` exception. For example, the following snippet prints `a b c 0 1 2` to the screen:

```python
the_list = ['a', 'b', 'c']
counter = 0
for ix in range(len(the_list)):
    print(the_list[ix], end=' ')
    the_list[ix] = counter
    counter += 1
for ix in range(len(the_list)):
    print(the_list[ix], end=' ')
```

07\) The list elements can be indexed with **negative numbers**, too. In this case, **-1** accesses the last element of the list, and **-2** accesses the one before the last, and so on. The alternative first list element's index is `-len(list)`.

08\) An attempt to access a non-existent list element (when the index goes out of the permissible range) raises the `IndexError` exception.

09\) A **slice** is a means by which the programmer can create a new list using a part of the already existing list.

10\) The most general slice looks as follows:

```python
the_list[from:to:step]
```

and selects those elements whose indices start at `from`, don't exceed `to`, and change with `step`. For example, the following snippet prints `['b', 'd']` to the screen:

```python
print(['a', 'e', 'c', 'f', 'b', 'd'][4:6])
```

11\) The following assumptions are made regarding the slices:

* `the_list[from:to]` is equivalent to `the_list[from:to:1]`
* `the_list[:to]` is equivalent to `the_list[0:to]`
* `the_list[from:]` is equivalent to `the_list[from:len(the_list)]`
* `the_list[:]` is equivalent to `the_list[0:len(the_list)]`

12\) Slices – like indices – can take negative values. For example, the following snippet prints `[1,2]` to the screen:

```python
the_list = [0, 1, 2, 3]
print(the_list[-3:-1])
```
