# 1.2.1.2 PCEP-30-02 Practice Test Compendium – Lists and strings

## Lists and strings

01\) If any of the slice's indices exceeds the allowable range, **no exception is raised**, and the non-existent elements are not taken into consideration. Therefore, it is possible that the resulting slice is an **empty** list.

02\) Assigning a list to a list **does not copy elements**. Such an assignment results in a situation when more than one name identifies the same data aggregate.

For example, the following snippet prints `True` to the screen:

```python
list_a = [1]
list_b = list_a
list_b[0] = 0
print(list_a[0] == list_b[0])
```

As the slice is a copy of the source list, the following snippet prints `False` to the screen:

```python
list_a = [1]
list_b = list_a[:]
list_b[0] = 0
print(list_a[0] == list_b[0])
```

03\) The `.append(element)` method can be used to **append an element** to the end of an existing list.

For example, the following snippet outputs `[1]` to the screen:

```python
the_list = []
the_list.append(1)
print(the_list)
```

04\) The `.insert(at_index, element)` method can be used to **insert** the element at the `at_index` of the existing list. For example, the following snippet outputs `[2, 1]` to the screen:

```python
the_list = [1]
the_list.insert(0, 2)
print(the_list)
```

05\) The `del the_list[index]` instruction can be used to **remove** any of the existing list elements.

For example, the following snippet prints `[]` to the screen:

```python
the_list = [1]
del the_list[0]
print(the_list)
```

06\) The `in` and `not` in operators can check whether any value is contained inside the list or not.

For example, the following snippet prints `True False` to the screen:

```python
the_list = [1, 'a']
print('a' in the_list, 1 not in the_list)
```

07\) Lists can be **iterated through** (traversed) by the `for` loop, which allows the programmer to scan all their elements without the use of explicit indexing. For example, the following snippet prints `1 2 3` to the screen:

```python
the_list = [1,2,3]
for element in the_list:
    print(element, end=' ')
```

08\) **List comprehension** allows the programmer to construct lists in a compact way. For example, the following snippet prints `[1,2,3]` to the screen:

```python
the_list = [x for x in range(1,4)]
print(the_list)
```

09\) **Strings**, like lists, are sequences, and in many contexts they behave like lists, especially when they are indexed and sliced or are arguments of the `len()` function.

10\) The `in` and `not` in operators can be applied to strings to check if any string is a **part of another string**. An empty string is considered a part of any string, including an empty one.

11\) Strings are **immutable** and their contents cannot be changed.

