# 1.2.1.4 PCEP-30-02 Practice Test Compendium – Tuples and dictionaries

## Dictionaries – continued

04\) Accessing a dictionary's value requires the use of its key. For example, the following line outputs `911` to the screen:

```python
print(phone_directory['Emergency'])
```

05\) An attempt to access an element whose key is absent in the dictionary raises the `KeyError` exception.

06\) The `in` and `not` in operators can be used to check whether a certain key exists in the dictionary. For example, the following line prints `True False` to the screen:

```python
print('Emergency' in phone_directory, 'White House' in phone_directory)
```

07\) The `len()` function returns the **number of pairs** contained in the directory. For example, the following line outputs `0` to the screen:

```python
print(len(empty_directory))
```

08\) **Changing** a value of the existing key is done by an **assignment**. For example, the following snippet outputs `False` to the screen:

```python
attendance = {'Bob': True}
attendance['Bob'] = False
print(attendance['Bob'])
```

09\) **Adding** a new pair to the dictionary resembles a regular assignment. For example, the following snippet outputs `2` to the screen:

```python
domains = {'au': 'Australia'}
domains['at'] = 'Austria'
print(len(domains))
```

10\) **Removing** a pair from a dictionary is done with the `del` instruction. For example, the following snippet outputs `0` to the screen:

```python
currencies = {'USD': 'United States dollar'}
del currencies['USD']
print(len(currencies))
```

11\) When iterated through by the for loop, the dictionary **displays only its keys**. For example, the following snippet outputs `A B` to the screen:

```python
phonetic = {'A': 'Alpha', 'B': 'Bravo'}
for key in phonetic:
    print(key, end=' ')
```

12\) The `.keys()` method returns a **list of keys** contained in the dictionary. For example, the following snippet outputs `A B` to the screen:

```python
phonetic = {'A': 'Alpha', 'B': 'Bravo'}
for key in phonetic.keys():
    print(key, end=' ')
```

13\) The `.values()` method returns a list of values contained in the dictionary. For example, the following snippet outputs `Alpha Bravo` to the screen:

```python
phonetic = {'A': 'Alpha', 'B': 'Bravo'}
for value in phonetic.values():
    print(value, end=' ')
```

14\) The `.items()` method returns a **list of two-element** tuples, each filled with **key:value** pairs. For example, the following snippet outputs `('A', 'Alpha') ('B', 'Bravo')` to the screen:

```python
phonetic = {'A': 'Alpha', 'B': 'Bravo'}
for item in phonetic.items():
    print(item, end=' ')
```
