# 1.2.1.2 PCEP-30-02 Practice Test Compendium – Functions

## Functions – continued

1. A function definition can declare **default values** for some or all of its parameters. When the invocation does not provide arguments for these parameters, the default values are taken into consideration. Note: parameters with default values must not precede the ones without them. For example, the following snippet prints `1 2 3` to the screen:\
   \
   `def function(a, b, c):print(a, b, c)function(1, c=3, b=2)`
2. \

3. Note that the following invocation is incorrect and will raise the `TypeError` exception, because the a parameter is set twice (once with the positional passing and once with the keyword passing) while the `c` parameter is not set at all.\
   \
   `function(1, a=1, b=2)`
4. \

5. A **scope** is the part of the code where a certain name is properly recognizable.
6. \

7. A variable existing outside a function has a scope which includes the function's bodies.
8. \

9. A variable defined inside the function has a scope inside the function's body only.
10. \

11. If a certain variable is used inside a function and the variable’s name is listed as an argument of the `global` keyword, it has **global scope**, and it is also recognizable outside the function. For example, the following snippet outputs `2` to the screen:\
    \
    `def function():global variablevariable += 1variable = 1function()print(variable)`\
    Note: removing the line containing the `global` keyword will spoil the code and the `UnboundLocalError` exception will be raised.

\


1. Changing the parameter's value **doesn't propagate it** outside the function. For example, the following snippet outputs `[1]` to the screen:\
   \
   `def function(parameter):parameter = [2]the_list = [1]function(the_list)print(the_list)`
2. \

3. If the parameter is a **list** or a **dictionary**, changing its contents **propagates them** outside the function. For example, the following snippet outputs `[2]` to the screen:\
   \
   `def function(parameter):parameter[0] = 2the_list = [1]function(the_list)print(the_list)`
4. \

5. **Recursion** is a programming technique in which the function **invokes itself** to perform a complex task. For example, the following snippet contains a function that evaluates the factorial of its argument and prints `120` to the screen:\
   \
   `def factorial(n):if n < 2:return nelse:return n * factorial(n - 1)print(factorial(5))`

\
