# 1.2.1.2 PCEP Practice Test Compendium – Python basic types and literals

## Python basic types and literals

01\) A **literal** is data whose value is **determined by the literal itself**. Different kinds of data are coded in different ways, enabling Python (and the human reader of the source code) to determine each literal's **type**. Knowing each argument's type is crucial to understand what operations are legal, and what results can be returned.

02\) **Integer** (`int` for short) is a type dedicated to storing **integral numbers**, that is, numbers that lack fractional parts. For example, 1 is an integral number and 1.5 is not.

03\) Most used integer literals in Python consist of a sequence of **decimal digits**. Such a sequence cannot include white spaces, but can contain any number of `_` (underscore) characters. Note: there must not be more than one underscore between two digits, and the underscore must be neither the last nor the first character of the literal. Underscores don't change a literal's value, and their only role is to improve literal readability. Integer literals can be preceded by any number of `-` (minus) or `+` (plus) characters, which are applied to set the literal's sign.

04\) Here are some examples of correct integer literals:

* `1_111` and `1111` encode the same integer value (_one thousand one hundred and eleven_)
* `-+-3` and `-3` denote the same integer value (_minus three_)
* `+1` and `1` encode the same integer value (_one_)

05\) Integer literals may be written using radices other than 10:

* if a literal starts with either a `0o` or `0O` digraph, it's an **octal** value (note: it must contain octal digits only!)
* `0o10` encodes an integer value equal to _eight_.
* if a literal starts with either a `0x` or `0X` digraph, it's a hexadecimal value (note: letters from **a** to **f** used as hexadecimal digits may be upper- or lower-case)
* `0X11` encodes an integer value equal to _seventeen_.
* if a literal starts with either a `0b` or `0B` digraph, it's a binary value (note: it must contain **0**s and **1**s only!)
* 0b111 encodes an integer value equal to seven.

06\) **Floating point** (`float` for short) is a type designed to store **real** numbers (in the mathematical sense), that is, numbers whose decimal expansion is or can be non-zero. Such a class of numbers includes fractions (integers don't).

07\) Float literals are distinguished from integers by the fact that they contain a **dot** (`.`) or the letter _e_ (lower- or upper-case) or both. If the only digits which exist before or after the dot are zeros, they can be omitted. Like integers, floats can be preceded by any number of `-` and `+` characters, which determine the number's sign. White spaces are not allowed, while underscores are.

08\) If the float literal contains the letter _e_, it means that its value is **scaled**, that is, it's multiplied by a **power of 10** while the exponent (which must be an integer!) is placed directly after the letter. A record like this:

`mEn`

is treated as a value equal to:

`m × 10n`

This syntax is called _scientific notation_ and is used to denote a number whose absolute value is extremely large (close to infinity) or extremely small (close to zero).

09\) Here are some examples of correct float literals:

* `1.1` – _one and one-tenth_
* `1.0` (`1.` for short) – _one point zero_
* `0.1` (`.1` for short) – _one-tenth_
* `1E1` – _ten point zero_
* `1e-1` – _one-tenth_
* `-1.1E-1` – _minus eleven hundredths_
